The Project Gutenberg eBook of A Sketch of Charles T. Walker, D.D., Pastor
of Tabernacle Baptist Church, Augusta, Ga., by Silas Xavier Floyd

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: A Sketch of Charles T. Walker, D.D., Pastor of Tabernacle
       Baptist Church, Augusta, Ga.

Author: Silas Xavier Floyd

Release Date: May 31, 2021 [eBook #65480]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: hekula03 and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at
             https://www.pgdp.net (This book was produced from images made
             available by the HathiTrust Digital Library.)

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK A SKETCH OF CHARLES T. WALKER,
D.D., PASTOR OF TABERNACLE BAPTIST CHURCH, AUGUSTA, GA. ***



—END.OF.DOCUMENT—

                                A SKETCH
                                   OF
                        Charles T. Walker, D. D.

                  PASTOR OF TABERNACLE BAPTIST CHURCH,
                              AUGUSTA, GA.

                                   BY
                       Silas Xavier Floyd, A. B.,
                     EDITOR OF THE WEEKLY SENTINEL.

                             [Illustration]

                              AUGUSTA, GA.,
                        Sentinel Publishing Co.,
                                  1892.




Charles Thomas Walker was born on the 11th day of January, 1858, at
Hephzibah, Ga. Hephzibah is in Richmond county about 14 miles south-west
of Augusta. He is the youngest of 11 children of whom 6 are dead and 5
are living. His father, Thomas Walker, was buried the day before he was
born. His mother, Mrs. Hannah Walker, died in 1866, little Charley being,
at the time, only 8 years old.

Thus, even before Charles was born, his mother was draped in the weeds of
widowhood, and he first opened his eyes on the light of this world as a
fatherless child. Thus, also, in early childhood, even before he had any
realizing sense of his true condition, he was compelled by the stern, but
beneficent discipline of an Alwise Providence to wail forth the cry of
complete orphanage.

On Wednesday before the first Sunday in June, 1873, while young Walker
was hoeing cotton, he decided to seek the Lord. He left the field that
day and went into the woods, and remained in the woods from Wednesday
afternoon without eating, drinking or seeing anyone, until the following
Saturday afternoon when he was converted. He was baptised on the first
Sunday in July by his uncle, the Rev. Nathan Walker, then pastor of the
Franklin Covenant Church, a faithful servant of the Master, who still
lives, shedding light and love among the people.

Young Walker immediately became an active and zealous Christian, and
was impressed with the thought that he was called of God to preach
the gospel. Accordingly in 1874, he entered the Augusta Institute, a
theological school located at Augusta and presided over by the late
Joseph T. Robert, D. D., L. L. D. This school has since been moved to
Atlanta and is now the Atlanta Baptist Seminary. In school. Mr. Walker
was soon celebrated for his great ability, for his thoroughness of
scholarship, and for his exemplary deportment. He had only 6 dollars when
he entered school. The first term he did his own cooking; he cooked only
twice a week—on Wednesdays and Saturdays; so great was his desire for
knowledge that he felt that he could not spare the time to cook every
day. When he had spent his six dollars he picked up his little bundle and
was on the eve of leaving school. Some of his student friends finding
out the reasons of his proposed departure and realizing what a loss it
would be to them and to the cause, remonstrated with him and urged him
to be patient a day or so longer. One of his fellow students, the Rev.
Dr. Love, of Savannah, Ga., went so far as to promise him that he would
provide for him personally until arrangements could be made. Mr. Walker
consented to remain; meanwhile Dr. Robert had been informed and he, in
turn succeeded in interesting three gentlemen of Dayton Ohio, in young
Walker and through the kindness of these gentlemen, the motherless and
fatherless boy was enabled to prosecute his studies for 5 years at the
Augusta Institute.

In 1876, in the 18th year of his age, Mr. Walker was licensed to preach,
and on the first Sunday in May, 1877, he was ordained to the sacred
office of the gospel ministry. He soon became noted as a preacher,
possessing, as he did supreme eloquence and a fair knowledge of the
scriptures. In 1878 he was elected pastor of the Franklin Covenant
Baptist church, of which he was a member and by the time he was 21 years
old he was pastor of four country churches and one city church; viz:
Franklin Covenant Baptist church, Hephzibah, Thankful Baptist Church,
Waynesboro, McKinnie’s Branch Baptist Church, Burke county, Ebenezer
Baptist church, Richmond county, and Mount Olive Baptist church, Augusta,
Ga. In 1880, he pastored the First Baptist church in LaGrange. In 1882,
he was called to the pastorate of Central Baptist church, Augusta, Ga.,
and the following year resigned and organized the Tabernacle Baptist
church, of which he is still the honored and distinguished pastor.

Rev. Walker built the Tabernacle church in 1885 at a cost of $13,500. It
is a handsome brick structure, and was dedicated in three months from
the day it was commenced. In the beginning its membership was 200. At
present the membership is 900, and Rev. Walker knows them every one by
name. Recently a new pipe organ has been put in the edifice at a cost
of $1,500. The building has already proved too small to accommodate the
great crowd that go to hear this great man preacher, and efforts are
being made to remodel the house of worship and make it much larger.

[Illustration: Rev. C. T. Walker, D. D.

Pastor of Tabernacle Baptist Church, Augusta, Ga., and Treasurer of the
National Baptist Convention of the United States]

Among the office of trust and responsibility which Rev. Mr. Walker
has held are the following: Moderator of the Western Union Baptist
Association, President of the Executive Board of the missionary
Baptist Convention of Georgia, Secretary of the State Baptist Sunday
School convention for 8 years. Members of the Board of trustees of the
Walker Baptist College and treasurer of the American National Baptist
Convention, and Business Manager of THE WEEKLY SENTINEL.

The honorary degree of “Doctor of Divinity” was conferred upon him in
1890 by the State University of Kentucky.

During the summer of 1891, Dr. Walker in company with the Rev. E. R.
Carter of Atlanta, Ga. took an extensive trip through Europe and the
Holy land and besides staying for awhile in England and on the Continent
and in Asia, he took a peep over in to Africa. On his return he lectured
throughout the South and in Boston and New York and every where with
profit and success. Many of the leading newspapers throughout country
spoke in terms of praise and admiration of the wonderful preacher and
lecturer.

The Rev Dr. Walker is only 34 years old—quite young indeed to have
accomplished so much for the advancement of Christ’s Kingdom.

    When Rev. Mr. Walker was leaving Hephzibah, in 1880, for
    LaGrange, one of his white friends, Col. A. C. Walker, gave him
    a letter of recommendation which speaks for itself. Here is
    what the letter said:

    “The bearer, Rev. C. T. Walker, is the fourth in descent from
    a family of Negroes brought from Virginia to Burke county
    by my grand father in 1773. As slaves they were noted for
    their admirable qualities and as freemen have sustained their
    reputation.

    Charles, by his energy, has obtained an excellent education
    and for two years has been licensed teacher of one our public
    schools. His character is irreproachable in all respects and
    by none is he esteemed more than by the more intelligent white
    citizens among whom he lives. It gives me great pleasure to
    testify to his worth and I most respectfully ask for him the
    generous consideration of the new people, with whom he is about
    to cast his lot. We sincerely regret his departure from among
    us, as he was exercising a most happy influence with his own
    race here.”

    Rev. Walker came to Augusta in 1883. In 1885, upon the
    completion of Tabernacle church, and on the day of its
    dedication all the papers of Augusta spoke in highest praise of
    the work accomplished and invariably referred to the edifice as
    an everlasting monument to the perseverance and energy of the
    pastor, Rev. C. T. Walker.

    Rev. Walker spent the fall of 1886 in the North, soliciting
    funds to complete the payment of his church property. His
    church had by their own efforts paid $10,000 of the $12,000,
    which the lot and edifice cost. He carried many letters of
    recommendation from leading men of the South.

    Dr. Love, of Savannah, pastor of the largest Baptist church in
    the world, wrote: “Rev. Charles T. Walker is one of the leading
    men of Georgia and is alright.”

    Prof Wm. E. Holmes of the Atlanta Baptist Seminary, wrote:
    “I cheerfully recommend Rev. Mr. Walker and his cause to
    the public and bespeak for him the success which he richly
    deserves.”

    Hon. Patrick Walsh, editor of the Augusta Chronicle wrote:
    “Rev. Walker is doing a great good among his people. His church
    is a great credit and both he and his people are worthy of
    substantial aid.”

    Hon. R. H. May, then Mayor of the city of Augusta, wrote: “He
    is a perfect gentleman, devout christian and deserving of all
    confidence.”

    The testimonials Rev. Walker carried with him on this trip
    might be multiplied ad infinitum.

    In New York Rev. Justin Dewey Fulton wrote: “My people who
    heard him pronounce him a preacher of more than ordinary
    ability. His voice is good, his learning modest and impressive,
    his language excellent, and the aim of his preaching is to
    glorify Christ.”

    In Boston, Rev. J. Horatio Carter, D. D., wrote:

    “Brother Walker is an able, earnest, logical and eloquent
    preacher, and worthy of support.”

    Rev. Walker was present at the organization of the American
    National Baptist Convention in 1886 at St. Louis, Mo., and
    served on the committee of constitution, and otherwise played a
    most prominent part in its organization. He has attended every
    session every year since, and is one of the most prominent
    members at its annual sessions.

    In 1889, at Indianapolis, Ind., before this body, the Rev.
    Mr. Walker preached the National sermon and that with telling
    effect. At its conclusion, the Rev. William J. Simmons, D. D.,
    L. L. D., Pres. of the State University of Ky., walked up to
    the minister, shook his hand and said, “You have won your D.
    D., and I’ll see that you get it.” The following summer, at
    the close of the school year 89-90, Dr. Simmons, true to his
    words had the trustees of the State University of Kentucky to
    confer upon Rev. C. T. Walker, the honorary degree of Doctor of
    Divinity which he has worthily borne ever since.

    Writing up this session of National Baptists the Rev. Dr.
    Daniel A. Gaddie, took occasion to say the Rev. Mr. Walker was
    “a young man full of life and piety, beautiful and attractive
    in delivery. He is an electrifying orator and waxes warm in the
    end. He is a great revivalist, a finished and pointed workman.”

    In this same convention Rev. Walker won for himself a national
    reputation for his wise and conservative stand when the body
    had under consideration the outlawry, lynch law and other
    outrages of the South. He was referred to, by the leading
    newspapers of the country, as a strong man in a crisis. The
    other members of the body, almost to a man, indulged in
    wholesale abuse of the South; maligned its name, hit the white
    people of the South some death dealing blows; excitement ran
    high, Rev. Walker gained the floor and made an able speech
    counseling wisdom and moderation and stating that he believed
    that the best element of the white people in the North were
    trying, to create a public sentiment so powerful against these
    outrages that they will become impossible.

On 21st, of May, 1882, Rev. Walker delivered the annual address
before the Atlanta Baptist and Spelman Seminary on the Needs and
Responsibilities of the Colored Race. It was a masterly effort. In
opening the speaker said:

“When our mind like the swiftly passing scene of a panorama take a
retrospective view of the past history of our race, and when we remember
that for over two centuries, ignorance, the mother of bigotry and
superstition, the bane of society, the prolific mother of weakness, held
our people with its slavish chains, we must admit that many of our people
have made commendable progress, and that the influence of religion,
morality and intelligence is increasingly felt.”

The speaker dwelt at length upon the Needs, and then took up the
Responsibilities. Said he:

“We are responsible for our souls. The soul is immortal, and cannot like
the body, undergo decomposition. It will live forever. When the mountains
are melted in the general conflagration, when the pyramids of Egypt are
levelled to the ground, when the refulgent stars, the silent messengers,
shall cease to dance in their golden sockets; when the moon, the queen
of night, refuses to give her silvery brightness; when the sun, the king
of day, the centre of the solar system, shall be blown out; when earth
is shrouded in her regalia of mourning, and when ocean shall gather all
her waters together to chant her funeral songs, the soul will be living
somewhere in God’s distant universe.”

In 1884, Rev. Walker delivered the annual address on the first day of
January in Augusta. His subject was “A REVIEW OF THE PAST”. It was a
wonderful exposition of the progress of the Negro in America. In the
course of his remarks, he paid the following tribute to Abraham Lincoln;

“Probably no man since the days of Washington was ever so deeply and
firmly imbedded and enshrined in the hearts of the people as Abraham
Lincoln. He won for himself a place in the hearts of our people that time
can never efface. By his noble deeds, emanated from his kind heart, he
wrote his name on the pages of future time as legible as the stars on the
brow of evening.”

In his address at the laying of the corner stone of the new building
of the Atlanta Baptist Seminary, in 1889, Rev. Walker said among other
things:

“If all men would recognize the fatherhood of God, the brotherhood
of man, pledge implicit obedience to the divine law and practice the
scriptural code of ethics, there would be no race problem. The race
problem is born of wickedness, inflamed by modern fanatics, stimulated
and encouraged by speculative, unworthy politicians. The Negro is a
loyal, peaceable, law-abiding citizen; among them you will find no
anarchist, nihilist, liberalist, communionist or strikers; the Negro has
always been found on the side of the constitution of his State and the
Union; he isn’t asking for supremacy or social equality; he only desires
an equal advantage in the race of life; he asks that you do not throw
impediments in his way; don’t close the gates of prosperity against him
because of his color; don’t hate him because he was a slave, he was not
so by choice; don’t despise him because of his ignorance, it is not his
fault; don’t ignore him on account of his poverty, he has had no rich
ancestors to bequeath him landed estates. He is unfortunate, pity him; he
is struggling, help him. A bright day is dawning. Citizens of every rank
and section of this country are uniting hand in hand to advocate such
legislation as will remove illiteracy. The last legislature of Georgia
deserve honorable mention for making appropriation for public education.
Our distinguished State School Commissioner, Judge James S. Hook, is
trying to put Georgia in line with other states intellectually and he is
succeeding admirably. Since God has raised up so many friends for us,
both at home and abroad, let us cultivate a friendly relation with those
among whom we live. Let us have a hand in solving our problem, shaping
our destiny and making for ourselves a creditable history.”

In the foregoing, we have attempted to give a short sketch of the career
of Dr. Walker, together with a few testimonials from his friends and some
extracts from his addresses. The half has not been told. The full history
of his life would make a large volume. It ought to be written, and will
be some time. Suffice it to say that, as a man, Dr. Walker is modest to a
fault, generous in the extreme, patient, forbearing and unselfish; as a
minister, he possesses great fervor and eloquence, and as a pulpit orator
probably he is excelled by no man in this country. The common people hear
him gladly. His highest aim is to be an humble servant of the Lord Jesus
Christ.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK A SKETCH OF CHARLES T. WALKER, D.D.,
PASTOR OF TABERNACLE BAPTIST CHURCH, AUGUSTA, GA. ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

—END.OF.DOCUMENT—

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

—END.OF.DOCUMENT—

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

—END.OF.DOCUMENT—

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

—END.OF.DOCUMENT—

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

—END.OF.DOCUMENT—

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.